Add an explainer for Unrestricted WebUSB (#237)
WICG/webusb: unrestricted-usb-explainer.md

# Explainer for Unrestricted WebUSB

A proposal to enable trusted web applications to bypass security restrictions
in the WebUSB API.

<!-- TOC -->
<!-- /TOC -->

## Introduction
The original intent of the WebUSB API was to support writing companion
applications for devices not otherwise supported by the browser or operating
system. Many USB devices use standard drivers included with the operating system
and are accessed by applications and websites through higher-level interfaces.
The interface classes for which sites should be using a higher-level interface
are placed on the [protected interface class list](https://wicg.github.io/webusb/#has-a-protected-interface-class)
and cannot be claimed by a site using WebUSB. Similarly, the [device blocklist](https://github.com/WICG/webusb/blob/main/blocklist.txt)
lists a number of security devices which are not accessible to sites using
WebUSB.

> These security restrictions make WebUSB unsuitable for use cases in which an
> application needs to access arbitrary USB devices. This is common in Virtual
> Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) deployments, where local peripherals need to be
> controlled by drivers and applications running on the remote virtual desktop.

Reviewer: I might rephrase this to be even more specific that this is basically the only use case for this capability:

```suggestion
These security restrictions make WebUSB unsuitable for the USB redirection
features common in Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) and remote desktop
applications, where local peripherals need to be controlled by drivers and
applications running on a remote system. While high-level redirection is
sometimes possible these systems typically require low-level USB access in
order to provide the best compatibility.
```

will not be able to request `"usb-unrestricted"`. Under this proposal,
`"usb-unrestricted"` can only be used with [Isolated Web Apps](https://github.com/WICG/isolated-web-apps/blob/main/README.md)
by including the feature in the `"permissions_policy"` manifest field.

```
"permissions_policy": {
   "usb": [ "self" ],
   "usb-unrestricted": [ "self" ]
}
```

## Security considerations
USB device access can be abused to attack the device or the host, as described
in the [Security and Privacy Considerations](https://wicg.github.io/webusb/#security-and-privacy)
section of the WebUSB spec. The threat model is unchanged, except that a
malicious application with `"usb-unrestricted"` can access more devices than
would normally be accessible through WebUSB. This could include input devices
like keyboards and second factor authentication keys, recording devices like
cameras and microphones, mass storage devices containing the user's private
data, and other vulnerable devices.

The authors of the WebUSB specification believe it is not possible to expose
unrestricted USB access to arbitrary web pages in a way that protects the user

> and also serves the VDI use case. The Isolated Web Apps proposal provides an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and also enables USB redirection. The Isolated Web Apps proposal provides an
```

alternate path for applications that require powerful capabilities considered
too dangerous for the web.

Isolated Web Apps include the [maximal set of permissions they could request](https://github.com/WICG/isolated-web-apps/blob/main/Permissions.md)
as a field in the application manifest. This enables administrators to audit
an application's permission usage and verify that it is not abusing powerful
capabilities.

## Privacy considerations
Unrestricted USB access can be used to access private information that is
normally managed by the operating system or browser. For example, the browser
uses an input focus model to ensure that keystrokes entered into a protected
password field cannot be read by script. Unrestricted low-level access to USB
HID devices like keyboards would enable script to bypass any input focus model

> and record the user's keystrokes.

Reviewer: The USB HID example is good for illustrating the privacy risk but is unrealistic as USB keyboards are an example where high-level redirection works well. A better example is a USB mass storage device, where the application gets access to every file on the device and can bypass OS-enforced file permissions and file selection UI like what is required by the File System Access API.

Author: PTAL
